# Perception, action and the brain readme
Joris Schut  
Friday, March 06, 2015  

##Introduction
This readme file provides an overview of my progress in the Perception, Action and the Brain Specialization on Coursera offered by Duke. In this document, I will provide an overview of my progress so far and my schedule to complete this specialization track.

##[The Perception, Action and the Brain specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specialization/neuro/14?utm_medium=listingPage)
The courses in this Specialization explore the deeply puzzling questions of how the human brain and the rest of the nervous system gather sense information that allows us to perceive the world and act successfully in it. The Specialization concludes with a Capstone project that allows you to apply the skills you've learned throughout the courses.

###Courses in this specialization
 1. [Foundational Neuroscience for Perception and Action](https://www.coursera.org/course/foundationmedneuro)
    Learn the basic structure and function of the human nervous system, how nerve cells generate electrical signals and communicate, how they reshape their connections with use, and how neural systems integrate external and internal sensory signals to orchestrate action.
 2. [The Brain and Space](https://www.coursera.org/course/brainspace)
    This course is about how the brain creates our sense of spatial location from a variety of sensory and motor sources, and how this spatial sense in turn shapes our cognitive abilities.
 3. [Visual Perception and the Brain](https://www.coursera.org/course/visualpercepbrain)
    The course will consider how what we see is generated by the visual system, and what visual perception indicates about how the brain works. The evidence will be drawn from neuroscience, psychology, science history and philosophy. Although the discussions will be informed by visual system anatomy and physiology, the focus is on perception.
 4. [Perception, Action and the Brain Final Project]()
    In this final project course, students will have a choice of three potential projects related to perception, to be completed across 8 weeks: write a research proposal, write a popular press article, or create a demonstration

###Duration and time investment
|Course name                  |Duration (weeks) |Time investment (hours/week)|
|-----------------------------|:---------------:|:-------------------------:|
|Foundational Neuroscience for Perception and Action |8| 4-5 |
|The Brain and Space                                 |6| 4-5 |
|Visual Perception and the Brain                     |8| 3-4 |
|Perception, Action and the Brain Final Project      |6| 4-6 |

Total time investment: 104-138 hours (comparable to 4-5 EC)

##Progress so far

###Completed courses
At this moment, I have completed the following courses:

|Course name                  |Grade |
|-----------------------------|-----:|
|-                            |-     |

Current average: -

###Courses in progress
At this moment, I am in the process of completing the following courses:

|Course name                     |
|--------------------------------|
|The Brain and Space             |
|Visual Perception and the Brain |

##Schedule
For the remaining courses in the specialization, I aim to follow the schedule below:

|Course name                                         |Planned for   |
|----------------------------------------------------|--------------|
|Foundational Neuroscience for Perception and Action |April 2015    |
|Perception, Action and the Brain Final Project      |Next offering |
